okay thank you everybody uh we
appreciate your patience all of those of
you decided to hang in there which looks
like it was most of you um obviously
it's a it's a difficult decision for the
board of Finance we uh you know we
haven't made a decision but you know we
had a lot of lot of discussion uh and
we're blessed with uh five candidates
who all had a lot to bring to the table
um so that's uh as you can
imagine that leads to a lot of uh a lot
of discussion um so we will go ahead and
move on to our nominations uh for the
board of
Finance um agenda item 8A um and I'm
just going to open it up to the board
members would anybody like to make a
nomination I would nominate
Jody okay Bill is nominating uh Jody
gross J as the to fill the vacancy for
the board of Finance do we have any
discussion from the board we already had
some in executive
session okay all of those in favor say I
I
I so we have three all those
opposed okay we have three so that
motion does not pass we have a split
vote there
okay we can entertain other
nominations Mark are we able to have
discussion in between or
no we can I'm not sure yeah I mean if
you have something specific yeah no um
yeah I mean it was just lengthy
discussions on all the very great um
candidates so all right no we'll move on
I guess thank
you um
then based on some of our our
discussions can I am I allowed to yeah
you can make a nomination if you want or
um yeah I'm gonna move to nominate Liz
loic for um Board of Finance member okay
do we have a second I'll second that
okay Kimberly seconds do we have any
further discussion from the board
members all those in favor say
I I I any
opposed how do you vote Mark um yeah I'm
gonna probably say nay too or they
should probably abstain actually um
we're
gonna uh gu go on do we have other I'm
going for it because this is this is
turning diff different than um so I'm
gonna go ahead and nominate beta for um
for Board of second Finance very I'll
second
that okay any
discussion just liking what brings to
the table all the the varied things that
she brought up um yeah
that's all those in favor say I I I I
any opposed how you
voting Mark did you didn't vote yeah I
did I said no oh I'm sorry and this
particular
one okay um so that was three and three
again
yeah okay how about
that well I'll take a shot I'll nominate
Heather
okay any
seconds I'll second that for the sake of
a vote
discussion all those in favor say I did
you give us a minute for discussion yeah
yeah I can yeah sorry if if if I'm
allowed Heather like I said they're all
very qualified I just didn't hear enough
tonight to to go with that that
direction in my opinion I don't mind
putting it out there again I want all
the candidates to know I think they're
all you know terrific um I just didn't
hear enough in and hers if we're
discussing
Heather
okay other comments or just
questions okay all those in favor say I
hi
posed okay so we're going round toour
I'd like to make a nomination go ahead
Louise i' like to nominate
Liz
okay I'll second it Kimberly seconds
okay we'll do another round any further
comments okay all those in favor say I I
I okay any
opposed I
two we
are yeah I you know I was
uh I was abstaining because of just I
know Liz personally not that well but um
you know I think with
that the motion still
passes 3 two
one
yeah yeah it's not it's not a majority
but I think with given the uh giving the
vote that the motion
passes further comments by the board
great job everybody was fantastic again
and um I'm sure Liz will do a great job
and so I think
congratulations yeah um yeah just the
same comments this is a really super
difficult uh decision we had you know
five good candidates and we have never
seen that for sure as long as I've been
involved I would ask all of you to
please remain involved because will be
openings in the future there will be
need for for people that care about the
town as much as clearly all five of you
do um and uh you know probably sooner
later the way things go um you know we
get unexpected vacancies right now there
are three vacancies one on each of the
main boards in the town and we need
people who are good committed and
qualified to fill those vacancies
absolutely um so you know I don't know
what status of the board of Finance
vacancy is look into that one there's
one on the board of ed I don't know what
the status of that is either at this
point uh but look into that and keep
your eye on these uh boards keep your
eye on the elections when it's time to
come and nominate new people to to fill
the you know go out there and do it
again please we really need you so yeah
I'll say just to you know I've been
doing this a while and I have never seen
five candidates for an open spot I think
the most we've ever had is two or three
five is insane um it was amazing that so
many of you stepped up so yeah stick
around please um there's lots to do in
town there's lots of uh you know there's
more turnover than you'd think so and we
all had positive things to say about all
of you I mean there's there's not a
negative thing to be said here um we
appreciated all of you it it was you
know it's gut-wrenching at times you
know when you have to come back and
forth and some things that are said our
in our private meetings you know don't
always come to fruition you know so but
we really appreciate all of you um and
yeah thank
you other comments from the
board okay thank you we'll move on to
agenda item nine which is board open
discussion um I want to just bring up
one thing um for the board if you have
not already and it was uh people brought
it up Jo know Jody mentioned it in his
discussion and B certainly brought up
the uh the uh
um Charter and the charter revision
committee so there are some significant
changes in the charter language proposed
Charter language some of them have to do
with the budget process um I looked at
it you know pretty thoroughly at least
once uh it was they were published in
the River East bulletin a couple weeks
ago I think it's also on the town's
website uh so you can check it out there
some of them do have a direct effect on
how the budgets processed uh it's
somewhat of I think of an attempt to
streamline the
process there are pluses and minuses to
both sides of that question um you know
in general my view is I'm probably in
favor of of what they're proposing um it
also moves the budget hearing and the
budget town meeting Town budget meeting
earlier in the year not a lot but a
couple weeks so yeah so it will further
compress uh the amount of time we have
to work on the budget I'll be honest I
don't think that's a bad thing um it
gives us a little more time before the
end of the fiscal year to get a budget
passed so that does add that value um
the challenge is that we have less time
to actually formulate and do the
workshops on the budget but you know
this is one of those things I think that
it's just going to force us and the uh
town and the board of Selectmen uh all
the town departments and Eric to be very
focused on getting it done quick and
that drive it out so I think we have the
time and you know you don't want this
project as they say sometimes the work
expands spit the time allowed and so
we're going to have less time to uh take
the job done if this passes uh but I do
think that everyone should take a look
at those uh Charter changes and uh some
of the others are related to uh or to
promulgating the ordinances of the town
you know that's you know outside the
perview I think of the board of Finance
but you know personally I don't have a
problem with it but that's that's uh
just another uh you know another thing
for for I think it's important for all
everybody in the town Who's involved or
concerned about the town operation
should should understand the charter
changes that's all I got um Mark I
presume since we were this was a really
streamlined meeting because we had so
much to do with all these candidates um
that will get to things like L and
reports and what have you in the next
meeting yeah we if you have anything you
can go ahead and bring it in now there's
just a really quick at CIP um there was
a proposal brought forward regarding the
school gym um heating situation I didn't
know this but I guess the heat comes in
uh off the ceiling and given the height
of the gym it doesn't really reach the
floor very well and so they're having to
use a lot of heat to get the gym in the
middle of the winter warm enough and
Jeff Murray had brought this whole
proposal for something called a
destratification fan system uh to put in
M stratification fans I guess the
ceiling fans there OT
blades and they spin slow and they don't
get the circulation down far enough so
the idea is to replace those with drat
fans um and there was a proposal there's
there's an you know an estimate a
proposal and CIP did vote to recommend
to bring that forward uh it's about a
we're hoping a little under $20,000
project but Jeff's pretty insistent that
it'll pay for itself
it's just a question of uh maybe how
optimistic you want to be about how long
it'll take but the idea is we'd use less
we'd burn less oil trying to heat that
thing in the
winter
okay so I had never heard of a
destratification fan before that meeting
but uh it all made sense I never heard
of it either but that's sounds good yeah
it has to do with what it takes to
circulate the air in the gym properly to
get the heat down and and what not
because heat wants to rise and and it's
about how fast the fan needs to spin
basically uh to force that air down
assuming it's optimized for that type of
thing as opposed to just being a
standard ceiling fan yeah I mean I guess
to a lay person you'd think the ceiling
fan did the job but apparently not okay
well I guess we'll we'll look to see
where that you know I don't know where
they want to fund it I know Carol Carol
Le had asked me a little bit about
something about that what the process
would be you know if they want to fund
it out of the town's funds it's got to
go through the board of selectman also
um so well I mean it's got the backing I
mean you know Murray's behind it I I
don't know who else on the on the select
board might be one out of four right now
so yeah yeah we'll see yeah yeah okay
anyway that was the update
okay um that's a good one Rob um one
other thing I'll mention too um is I
don't think all of you have been kind of
it wouldn't necessarily been prey um the
tri board uh policy that that uh Rob and
Shannon were working on um Shannon had
asked the town attorney to to review it
um he did not have time because he was
working so much on that Minority
representation opinion uh that you you
were all forwarded um for the town um he
had to spent a lot of time on that and
he updated it until recently so he just
finished with that um he sent Shannon
and I had text this morning and let us
know that he was going to make this next
the triart policy review his next
priority
so we don't have that that legal review
yet um and Chan asked about me to be
putting it on this meeting but it just
wasn't going to happen this time we need
we had a lot to do tonight anyway so I
think next meeting is good yeah um so
just just you're aware where that stands
too anything else from the board open
discussion just a comment that there was
some good news I guess about Ram taking
in Columbia student students which would
help lower our burden again
So speaking ofera towns and finding ways
to well like Jord said sharing the
burden with other towns right so yes I
thought that was great yeah I think it's
good student related costs you know
would probably be up a little bit but
you know all the things that are
building you know building wide or
something yeah that is awesome I'm happy
about enrollment so down I mean they
might as well do that and I think it's
good for the kids too absolutely 400
people is down right now so right when
my kids went there I think graduating
classes were 1,200 you know or right or
wait right I on net you're gonna it's
gonna be better yeah gonna and all
special cost and transportation comes to
Columbia you know like special education
Transportation all those additional
costs go to the student you know to the
town so we're not picking up any of that
burden right right so
to hold that many kids so that it is a
good thing so yeah
nice yeah anything more on the board
open
discussion okay hearing none we'll move
on to correspondence uh I don't have any
that we haven't already shared I sent on
the information about the minority
representation which um as you learned
from reading it or at least my summary
of it um that really doesn't affect the
board of Finance so much um it is a
factor with the board of Selectmen so
they have to uh they have to factor that
into their nomination and decision
process uh but uh for us we're we're
okay where we
are
um okay so if we don't have anything
else with the
correspondence um we can move on to
public speak uh again I'll go around and
see if any members of the public uh have
anything to
add um let's see
I'll just go from my screen Liz you have
anything more to
add I just wanted to thank all of you
once again and thank everybody else who
um threw their hat in the ring uh this
was a a tough a tough uh decision for
all you you guys so I appreciate all of
you thank
you um Christina
Christina sorry I'll set thank you okay
thank you
y thank you for your time and I look
forward to hopefully working with
everyone in the future yeah we hope you
do thank
you uh
Marcy oh I just want to appreciate uh
the consideration all your
professionalism and you guys do such
great work and that's probably a
testament to why there were so many of
us that wanted to join you know you you
guys are seem like a good board and uh
everyone cooperates with each other and
uh just really you guys you guys are
good team so I appreciate all your
efforts and and your consideration and I
think you've uh you made a good choice
with Liz so thank you all right thank
you thanks see you uh
Jody well there we go I can come off
mute uh first of all congratulations Liz
you're going to be a great addition to
the board um thank you to everyone that
considered me for the open position and
um look forward to continuing to stay
involved in town thanks we hope you do
thank you Jody yep okay I have Julie
gorde H almost set thank you okay am I
pronouncing your name right uh it has a
hard T at the end cordette okay did
I'm from a French background so no
worries okay um I had a there's a chat
from Scott said that he had nothing uh
Heather I'm all set thanks everyone for
your time okay thank you Heather and
hopefully we'll see you uh uh
contributing to the town again
soon I think that that's everybody so we
can move on to our next item which is 12
which is the adjournment um would
anybody like to make a motion to
adjourn I saw your hand up you're making
the motion there I'll make a
motion Lise seconds any
discussion no all those in favor say
I I'll
opposed glad to hear there aren't any
opposed any
abstentions for those of you who are
candidates if you think this is a long
meeting just wait till budget season hey
we were better this year yeah we wer on
there till
11:30 we late
night we gonna compress the process you
know that's why I was shaking my head
scaring me a little bit coming I don't
know to be sworn in yeah Town CL for Liz
yep all right very good uh so no
extensions the motion passes the meeting
is so adjourn thank you very much for
your participation and once again thank
you very much our candidates it's a very
tough decision any of you I'm sure would
have done a great job so thanks very
much take care good night everybody
everyone have a great night good night